Sy/slurm integration (#18893)
DataDog/integrations-core: slurm/README.md

Author: I think we can stick with Slurm. I was reading one article that it was called SLURM. But I think we can keep what's official thanks for spotting!

# Agent Check: SLURM

## Overview

This check monitors [SLURM][1] through the Datadog Agent. 

SLURM (Simple Linux Utility for Resource Management) is an open-source workload manager used to schedule and manage jobs on large-scale compute clusters. It allocates resources, monitors job queues, and ensures efficient execution of parallel and batch jobs in high-performance computing environments.

> The check gathers metrics from slurmctld by executing and parsing the output of several command-line binaries, including [sinfo][8], [squeue][9], [sacct][10], [sdiag][11], and [sshare][12]. These commands provide detailed information on resource availability, job queues, accounting, diagnostics, and share usage in a SLURM-managed cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The check gathers metrics from `slurmctld` by executing and parsing the output of several command-line binaries, including [`sinfo`][8], [`squeue`][9], [`sacct`][10], [`sdiag`][11], and [`sshare`][12]. These commands provide detailed information on resource availability, job queues, accounting, diagnostics, and share usage in a SLURM-managed cluster.
```

## Setup

> Follow the instructions below to install and configure this check for an Agent running on a host. Since the Agent requires direct access to the various SLURM binaries, monitoring SLURM in containerized environments is not yet recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the instructions below to install and configure this check for an Agent running on a host. Since the Agent requires direct access to the various SLURM binaries, monitoring SLURM in containerized environments is not recommended.
```

**Note**: This check was tested on SLURM version 21.08.0.

### Installation

The SLURM check is included in the [Datadog Agent][2] package.
No additional installation is needed on your server.

### Configuration

1. Ensure that the dd-agent user has execute permissions on the relevant command binaries and the necessary permissions to access the directories where these binaries are located.

> 2. Edit the `slurm.d/conf.yaml` file, in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your Agent's configuration directory to start collecting your slurm data. See the [sample slurm.d/conf.yaml][3] for all available configuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Edit the `slurm.d/conf.yaml` file, in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your Agent's configuration directory to start collecting your Slurm data. See the [sample slurm.d/conf.yaml][3] for all available configuration options.
```

```yaml
init_config:

>     ## Feel free to customize this part incase the binaries are not located in the /usr/bin/ directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ## Customize this part if the binaries are not located in the /usr/bin/ directory
```

    ## @param slurm_binaries_dir - string - optional - default: /usr/bin/

>     ## The directory at which all the Slurm binaries are located. These are mainly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ## The directory in which all the Slurm binaries are located. These are mainly:
```

    ## sinfo, sacct, sdiag, sshare and sdiag.

    slurm_binaries_dir: /usr/bin/

instances:

  -

>     ## Configure here if there's data you wish to or not collect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ## Configure these parameters to select which data the integration collects.
```

    ## Whether or not to collect statistics from the sdiag command.
    #
    collect_sdiag_stats: true

    ## @param collect_squeue_stats - boolean - optional - default: true
    ## Whether or not to collect statistics from the squeue command.
    #
    collect_squeue_stats: true

    ## @param collect_sacct_stats - boolean - optional - default: true
    ## Whether or not to collect statistics from the sacct command.
    #
    collect_sacct_stats: true

    ## @param collect_sshare_stats - boolean - optional - default: true
    ## Whether or not to collect statistics from the sshare command.
    #
    collect_sshare_stats: true

    ## @param collect_gpu_stats - boolean - optional - default: false
    ## Whether or not to collect GPU statistics when Slurm is configured to use GPUs using sinfo.
    #
    collect_gpu_stats: true

    ## @param sinfo_collection_level - integer - optional - default: 1
    ## The level of detail to collect from the sinfo command. The default is 'basic'. Available options are 1, 2 and
    ## 3. Level 1 collects data only for partitions. Level 2 collects data from individual nodes. Level 3 

>     ## collects data from from individual nodes as well but will be more verbose and include data such as CPU and 
>     ## memory usage as reported from the OS as well as additional tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ## collects data from from individual nodes as well but is more verbose and includes data such as CPU and 
    ## memory usage as reported from the OS, as well as additional tags.
```
